README.md, before:

# Provision your favorite development environment with Ansible

This vagrant file, provision.sh, and playbook allows you to provision your favorite development environment even if you are on Windows or behind proxy.


## Requirement

This vagrant file, provision.sh, and playbook expects the following tools are already installed.

- [Oracle VM VirtualBox 4.3.6](https://www.virtualbox.org/)
- [Vagrant 1.4.1](http://www.vagrantup.com/)

Git client is also needed. If you are on Windows, msysgit is preferred.

- [Git for Windows 1.9.0](http://msysgit.github.io/)


## How to use

Create and move to directory where you want to create the virtual machine, then download this playbook via git.

```
$ mkdir -p ~/vagrants/
$ cd ~/vagrants/
$ git clone https://github.com/garbagetown/ansible-provision-vagrant.git
```

If you are behind the proxy, configure your proxy host and port like below.

```
$ echo 'http_proxy: http://your.proxy.host:9999/' >> ansible-provision-vagrant/ansible/roles/proxy/vars/main.yml
```

Finally, dive into the directory and boot the virtual machine. **THIS PROCESS WILL TAKE A SEVERAL MINUTES**, please wait patiently.

```
$ cd ansible-provision-vagrant
$ vagrant up
Bringing machine 'default' up with 'virtualbox' provider...
[default] Importing base box 'precise64'...
[default] Matching MAC address for NAT networking...
[default] Setting the name of the VM...
[default] Clearing any previously set forwarded ports...
[default] Clearing any previously set network interfaces...
[default] Preparing network interfaces based on configuration...
[default] Forwarding ports...
[default] -- 22 => 2222 (adapter 1)
[default] Booting VM...
[default] Waiting for machine to boot. This may take a few minutes...
DL is deprecated, please use Fiddle
[default] Machine booted and ready!
(snip)
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  ansible libyaml-0-2 python-crypto python-httplib2 python-jinja2
  python-markupsafe python-paramiko python-pkg-resources python-yaml
0 upgraded, 9 newly installed, 0 to remove and 159 not upgraded.
(snip)
Setting up libyaml-0-2 (0.1.4-2ubuntu0.12.04.2) ...
Setting up python-yaml (3.10-2) ...
Setting up python-crypto (2.4.1-1ubuntu0.1) ...
Setting up python-paramiko (1.7.7.1-2ubuntu1) ...
Setting up python-markupsafe (0.15-1) ...
Setting up python-jinja2 (2.6-1) ...
Setting up python-httplib2 (0.7.2-1ubuntu2.1) ...
Setting up ansible (1.4.4+dfsg-1~ubuntu12.04.1) ...
Setting up python-pkg-resources (0.6.24-1ubuntu1) ...
Processing triggers for libc-bin ...
ldconfig deferred processing now taking place
(snip)
PLAY [127.0.0.1] **************************************************************

GATHERING FACTS ***************************************************************
ok: [127.0.0.1]
(snip)
PLAY RECAP ********************************************************************
127.0.0.1                  : ok=25   changed=24   unreachable=0    failed=0
```

After the provisioning process has completed successfully, you can log in to the virtual machine using `vagrant ssh`.

```
$ vagrant ssh
Welcome to Ubuntu 12.04 LTS (GNU/Linux 3.2.0-23-generic x86_64)

 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com/
Welcome to your Vagrant-built virtual machine.
Last login: Fri Sep 14 06:23:18 2012 from 10.0.2.2

# vagrant at precise64 in ~ [3:00:50]
$
```

Or using general ssh command to localhost with specifying the user name and port number which vagrant forwards.

```
$ ssh vagrant@127.0.0.1 -p 2222
The authenticity of host '[127.0.0.1]:2222 ([127.0.0.1]:2222)' can't be established.
RSA key fingerprint is 50:db:75:ba:11:2f:43:c9:ab:14:40:6d:7f:a1:ee:e3.
Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no)? yes
Warning: Permanently added '[127.0.0.1]:2222' (RSA) to the list of known hosts.
vagrant@127.0.0.1's password:
Welcome to Ubuntu 12.04 LTS (GNU/Linux 3.2.0-23-generic x86_64)

 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com/
Welcome to your Vagrant-built virtual machine.
Last login: Thu Mar  6 03:00:49 2014 from 10.0.2.2

# vagrant at precise64 in ~ [3:02:16]
$
```

The password of vagrant is `vagrant`, as you know ;-)


## Provisioned environment

This vagrant file, provision.sh, and playbook provisions the following environment.

- Ubuntu 12.04.1 LTS x86_64
  - build-essential
  - git
  - tig
  - svn
  - vim
  - tmux
  - openjdk 7
  - zsh
    - using oh-my-zsh and 'ys' theme
  - ruby 2.1.0
    - using rbenv system widely

Of course Python and Ansible are installed, too!

Commit message:

set up the private network address, and modify README.md to use it. closes
accessing virtual machine from host OS via 3000 port allowed without
iptables configuration in case of ubuntu.

README.md, after:

# Provision your favorite development environment with Ansible

This vagrant file, provision.sh, and playbook allows you to provision your favorite development environment even if you are on Windows or behind proxy.


## Requirement

This vagrant file, provision.sh, and playbook expects the following tools are already installed.

- [Oracle VM VirtualBox 4.3.6](https://www.virtualbox.org/)
- [Vagrant 1.4.1](http://www.vagrantup.com/)

Git client is also needed. If you are on Windows, msysgit is preferred.

- [Git for Windows 1.9.0](http://msysgit.github.io/)


## How to use

Create and move to directory where you want to create the virtual machine, then download this playbook via git.

```
$ mkdir -p ~/vagrants/
$ cd ~/vagrants/
$ git clone https://github.com/garbagetown/ansible-provision-vagrant.git
```

If you are behind the proxy, configure your proxy host and port like below.

```
$ echo 'http_proxy: http://your.proxy.host:9999/' >> ansible-provision-vagrant/ansible/roles/proxy/vars/main.yml
```

Finally, dive into the directory and boot the virtual machine. **THIS PROCESS WILL TAKE A SEVERAL MINUTES**, please wait patiently.

```
$ cd ansible-provision-vagrant
$ vagrant up
Bringing machine 'default' up with 'virtualbox' provider...
[default] Importing base box 'precise64'...
[default] Matching MAC address for NAT networking...
[default] Setting the name of the VM...
[default] Clearing any previously set forwarded ports...
[default] Clearing any previously set network interfaces...
[default] Preparing network interfaces based on configuration...
[default] Forwarding ports...
[default] -- 22 => 2222 (adapter 1)
[default] Booting VM...
[default] Waiting for machine to boot. This may take a few minutes...
DL is deprecated, please use Fiddle
[default] Machine booted and ready!
(snip)
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  ansible libyaml-0-2 python-crypto python-httplib2 python-jinja2
  python-markupsafe python-paramiko python-pkg-resources python-yaml
0 upgraded, 9 newly installed, 0 to remove and 159 not upgraded.
(snip)
Setting up libyaml-0-2 (0.1.4-2ubuntu0.12.04.2) ...
Setting up python-yaml (3.10-2) ...
Setting up python-crypto (2.4.1-1ubuntu0.1) ...
Setting up python-paramiko (1.7.7.1-2ubuntu1) ...
Setting up python-markupsafe (0.15-1) ...
Setting up python-jinja2 (2.6-1) ...
Setting up python-httplib2 (0.7.2-1ubuntu2.1) ...
Setting up ansible (1.4.4+dfsg-1~ubuntu12.04.1) ...
Setting up python-pkg-resources (0.6.24-1ubuntu1) ...
Processing triggers for libc-bin ...
ldconfig deferred processing now taking place
(snip)
PLAY [127.0.0.1] **************************************************************

GATHERING FACTS ***************************************************************
ok: [127.0.0.1]
(snip)
PLAY RECAP ********************************************************************
127.0.0.1                  : ok=25   changed=24   unreachable=0    failed=0
```

After the provisioning process has completed successfully, you can log in to the virtual machine using `vagrant ssh`.

```
$ vagrant ssh
Welcome to Ubuntu 12.04 LTS (GNU/Linux 3.2.0-23-generic x86_64)

 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com/
Welcome to your Vagrant-built virtual machine.
Last login: Fri Sep 14 06:23:18 2012 from 10.0.2.2

# vagrant at precise64 in ~ [3:00:50]
$
```

Or using general ssh command to private network address which defined in Vagrantfile.

```
$ ssh vagrant@192.168.33.10
vagrant@192.168.33.10's password:
Welcome to Ubuntu 12.04 LTS (GNU/Linux 3.2.0-23-generic x86_64)

 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com/
Welcome to your Vagrant-built virtual machine.
Last login: Thu Mar  6 03:00:49 2014 from 10.0.2.2

# vagrant at precise64 in ~ [3:02:16]
$
```

The password of vagrant is `vagrant`, as you know ;-)


## Provisioned environment

This vagrant file, provision.sh, and playbook provisions the following environment.

- Ubuntu 12.04.1 LTS x86_64
  - build-essential
  - git
  - tig
  - svn
  - vim
  - tmux
  - openjdk 7
  - zsh
    - using oh-my-zsh and 'ys' theme
  - ruby 2.1.0
    - using rbenv system widely

Of course Python and Ansible are installed, too!
